# Automated Bin Changing For Maximo

I wrote this Java program during my internship at Johnson Controls the summer after my freshman year at Notre Dame. The program was written to interface with “Maximo”, inventory management software created by IBM. Part of my job at Johnson Controls involved renaming the locations of different items in the inventory, which was very time intensive on a large scale. Because there was no simple way to do this directly in Maximo, I created a Java program that basically automated this task for me. The program would grab an item number from an excel sheet, enter it into Maximo to pull up the item, and then copy the new location for the item from the next column in the excel sheet. This new location was then used to replace the previous location for the item in Maximo. 

Unfortunately, Maximo did not have a simple method to change an item’s location. The item would have to be set to a quantity of 0, have a new location entered for the item, and re-add the original quantity to the newly entered location. Only after the previous location was set to a quantity of 0 could it be deleted from the database. As it is easy to see, changing the location for one item was very tedious. Repeat this procedure for hundreds of items in the database and it doesn’t take long to realize what a time intensive task this is. 

Thus, automating this task actually served several purposes. The initial purposes were to drastically reduce the time spent clicking through the interface and copying and pasting as well as minimize any user errors (copying the wrong location for an item). However, I also realized as I developed the program an additional benefit: I could detect and log when an item was in multiple locations and flag this item for later review, so that the items could be physically moved to a single location in the storage area. I was also very happy to use this opportunity that I saw to utilize my creativity and develop my programming skills, as I was forced to learn as I went for much of my program. 
